The [http://atm.ucdavis.edu/ Atmospheric Science department] is commonly called ATM by people in the major.  They study just about anything about the department -- weather forecasting (meterology), climate prediction, air quality and chemistry, and atmospheric dynamics.  In addition, there are a lot of grad students studying biometeorolgy here in Davis -- things like measuring carbon (CO2) and moisture flux above a forest canopy.  Cool, huh?

Studying weather sounds fun, but there are a lot of serious math and physics classes required to get government certification as a meterologist.  Thus the major requires those classes.  ["Environmental and Resource Science" ERS] is a good option for those who don't want to have to take Atmospheric Dynamics (121A and 121B) and still want to study weather.  However, the true "weather nuts" stick out all of the hard classes, because you learn a lot about how complex atmosphere system actually works.

''It's really a miracle that the weather models work at all, since there's so much unknown about the atmosphere.  So please don't get mad at us when we blow a forecast occasionally.'' - ["BrentLaabs"]

The department is headquartered in ["Hoagland Hall"], though a few people are over in ["Plant and Environmental Sciences Building" PES] or elsewhere.  The "cool" hangout place is Hoagland Hall 124, the department computer lab.  The lab is open only to people in LAWR (ie. ATM, HYD, SSC, ERS majors), so maybe get one of the majors to sign you on if your really need to use a computer.

= Culture =
The major has a lot of quirky people.  Three ["Students for an Orwellian Society" Orwellian] officers are in this department: MiniHeal, ["BrentLaabs" MiniLuv], and the Thought Police Chief.  From 2003 to 2004, we had a undergrad who was nicknamed "Skreetch" -- he also wrote most of the ["California Aggie"] weather forecasts those years.  We have Jason Snyder who talks a lot about Vons, a Southern California supermarket.  There's Dr. Dave Pyles who's starting his own commune, Elusis.  We miss Dan Hodyss, a former grad student now in West Palm Beach, who brightened our days with lots of cynicism.

And if life isn't exciting enough with all of these interesting people, there's always a thunderstorm to chase.
