[[center(begin)]]'''The Countback Amendment'''[[center(end)]]

If you don't have any idea what this is, you should visit the ["Countback"] page first. First is the actual text of the Countback Amendment as authored by ["JonathonLeathers" Jonathon Leathers] with help from ["Chris Jerdonek" Chris Jerdonek]. Secondly, there is a quick walk-through of how the ["Countback"] Election actually works.



REVISED VERSION (DRAFT 3.2 - Jan. 31, 2005)

ASUCD CONSTITUTION - ARTICLE II - ASUCD LEGISLATIVE BRANCH 

Section 11

(1) Filling Vacancies -- ASUCD Senate vacancies shall be filled by a "Countback Election" using the ballots cast by voters during the election in which the vacating candidate(s) originally ran. The Countback Election will be conducted in the following manner. 

(2) For the purpose of this section, an "election cycle" shall refer to either of the pools of candidates running in the most recent Fall or Winter ASUCD General Election. For each election cycle, ASUCD shall maintain, for each ASUCD Senator or Senator-elect, a list of the weighted ballots assigned them at the conclusion of the most recent General Election or Countback Election. ASUCD shall also maintain, for each election cycle, a list of the weighted exhausted ballots at the conclusion of the most recent General or Countback Election. 

(3) In the event of a vacancy or vacancies, ASUCD shall conduct, within three (3) academic days, a Single Transferable Vote tally using the ballots of all vacating Senator(s) combined with all exhausted ballots of that election cycle. The Countback Election shall include all candidates of the election cycle that are eligible to assume ASUCD office and that have not won a previous General Election or Countback Election for that election cycle. The number of winners of the tally shall equal the number of vacancies to fill from that election cycle. 

(4) Each winning candidate will be issued a certificate of election at the Senate meeting in the week following the countback election. Upon receipt of the certificate of election, each replacement Senator will immediately assume office. Replacement Senators shall serve as full ASUCD Senators for the remainder of the original term. 

(5) If one or more winning candidates decline to assume office, ASUCD shall conduct another countback election from that point forward to fill the vacancy or vacancies.  For the purpose of this section, a Senator-elect that declines to assume office shall be treated as a vacating candidate. 

(6) If five (5) Senator-elects decline to fill a vacant seat, the ASUCD President shall exclusively appoint a Replacement Senator from among applications received during a one week advertising period. The advertising period must begin within two (2) academic days from the fifth Senator-elect declining to serve, and must be at least five (5) academic days in length during the regular academic year (summer sessions shall not be considered part of the regular academic year). The President must appoint the Replacement Senator within two weeks from the time at which the fifth Senator-elect declined to serve. Any appointments made by the President shall be confirmed by a majority of the remaining members of the Senate. In the event that five (5) or more vacancies exist on the Senate, a quorum need not be present in order to confirm the Replacement Senator.



[[center(begin)]]'''The Countback Election:'''[[center(end)]]
[[center(begin)]]'''A Simple Explanation'''[[center(end)]]
[[center(begin)]]by Jonathon Leathers[[center(end)]]

The Countback Election is a way to fill vacated Senate seats without the President appointing someone or having to hold a special election. Below is an example of how a Countback Election would fill the recent vacancies of Malik and Ruel. 

Click here to follow along with this explanation: [http://www.davischoicevoting.org/countback/malik_ruel/Fall%202004%20Countback%20Round.htm Fall 2004 Countback]. 

1) Once a Senator vacates, the ballot data from the election in which the vacating Senator was elected is accessed within three academic days of the vacancy occurring.

2) The Countback Election begins by transferring all of the ballots used to elect Malik (513), all of the ballots used to elect Ruel (513), and all of the exhausted ballots from that election (484). The ballots that elected the non-vacating Senators are excluded from the Countback Election as those voters continue to have a serving representative. (Note: 513 was the threshold for the Fall 2004 election).

3) The first round of the Countback Election shows all of the transferred votes from Malik’s pile, Ruel’s pile, and the exhausted pile of ballots. Also notice that all elected and vacating candidates have been excluded from the Countback Election as they obviously cannot be elected again.

4) The election then continues until one of the remaining candidates meets the threshold to be elected as a Replacement Senator. In this case, candidate Manteghi is the first to meet the threshold and is thus elected. The next round sees candidate Chin as the only remaining candidate and since two seats must be filled, she is elected by process of elimination.

5) Assuming a Senator announces their resignation at a Senate meeting, the Countback Election would occur within three days and the winner would be announced thereafter. The winner would then be sworn in and assume office at the next Senate meeting. (If they choose not to serve, then another Countback Election is held with the winner of the first Countback Election treated as a vacating candidate).

** To see how the Ackerman, Barr, Malik and Ruel vacancies would have been filled using a Countback Election, visit:
http://www.davischoicevoting.org/2005/01/filling-asucd-vacancies-illustrating.php.
