attachment:garden1.jpg

This little garden is maintained by a homeless man.  It sits right along the bend in L Street that ends L and becomes 2nd Street.  

attachment:garden2.jpg

Most probably miss it as they zip by in their cars.  It varies in size and beauty depending upon the season and the amount of time its maintainer has.

attachment:garden3.jpg

attachment:garden4.jpg

The garden comes and goes with the seasons and as of November 2004 it's currently being re-planted.

From a randomly found [http://sacramento.craigslist.org/ craigslist] posting:

''As we have all noticed, along 2nd street (just out of downtown, the near 90 degree turn) there are many plants immaculately taken care of. If you are a frequent driver you would notice that it is actually a homeless man who does our city this lovely deed. I stopped by on my bike today to talk to him.

He was very kind, a little blunt. He told me of his 12 hour workdays and cold nights. He has been doing this work for three years now. While PG & E does supply free water and the city does allow him to use their topsoil from time to time, he does not receive money for food or equipment and plants. Yes, it would be ludicrous to demand a minimum-wage for this man, but I do not see why we couldn't gather up some spare change and help the man out. He did mention he receives social security but that isn't much.

He mentioned to me that he is in dire need of the following:

 1. Numerous hoses - his are leaking
 1. A shovel (as wide as they make them)
 1. A wheel barrow
 1. And of course, cash donations. Regardless of what the money is spent on, he unselfishly does us a great service and I feel that if you have the money to spare, help him out. Most of your sons and daughters in college could outdrink him any day, so what if he would like to enjoy some alcohol.''


[[Comments()]]
------
''2004-12-01 23:12:45'' [[nbsp]] I was all ready to offer the guy something, but then read the outdrinking him part and was a bit annoyed.  Most people don't drink that much and I sure as hell won't be able to outdrink him.  I know the last part was probably well meant, but it really annoys me.   - ["MarieHuynh"]------
''2004-12-02 13:46:33'' [[nbsp]] I used to live near there it sprouted up in the year 2002 when I got to davis it didn't used to be there. Also the neighbor kids kicked the garden down intially. I know about plants and the reason that most of his plants die seasonally is that he plants annuals(they die after their season is done) someone needs to get him some bulbs or shurbs to keep some permenece instead of dead flowers ever 6 months when it gets hot or cold. - ["RyanBasilio"]