In the basement of ["Kemper Hall" EUII] lies the Computer Science Instructional Facility (CSIF), commonly referred to as '''The Dungeon'''. It consists of five lab rooms as well as a support room. All Computer Science and CSE majors, as well as anyone taking a CS class, get a login for the CSIF computers. Most every reasonable CS class in ["UC Davis"] that accepts programs for homework will require them to compile on CSIF computers, because they'll most likely be graded from there.

attachment:dungeon.jpg

The computers that make up the CSIF are named *.cs.ucdavis.edu. There are 67 Linux/Intel PCs, named pcN.cs.ucdavis.edu where N ranges something like 1 to 99 with a fair amount of holes interspersed within. They can be SSHed into from anywhere, even off campus, a viable solution for those who want to work at home and are not bothered by latency. The machines cover a fair range of speeds and manufacturers. The far south lab consists of ~10 Hewlett Packard computers (named for the different architecture, NOT meaning they're IBM clones manufactured by HP) and ~10 of the fastest Linux/Pentium 4 PCs with priority reserved for Computer Graphics students because of their larger monitors and reasonable graphics cards (relative to other computers in the CSIF).

At a time now past, the labs were populated with a wider variety of hardware, with both DEC VAXstation and SGI MIPS workstations represented.  The HPs are holdovers from that time, and (as no one apart from a few students who make a hobby of HP-UX seems able to keep them running,) probably soon to go.

However, the place is very very slow to toss things out.  Look at this box of junk that is still down there:

attachment:junk.jpg

Accounts on the CSIF servers are limited to a 25 meg quota, which causes no end of fun for the students running ["CSIF Support" support], as 90% of the questions they receive deal with mysterious behavior resulting from going over quota. Students taking certain classes like ECS175 (Computer Graphics) get a quota boost, because even the CSIF admins are willing to concede that trying to keep the code for four OpenGL assignments along with a bunch of model files and textures under 25 megs is ridiculous. Users who ask why the CSIF admins don't just put in bigger hard drives are shushed away with some hand-waving nonsense about how the HDs are very well busy enough making backups every three hours and adding more space would make that timeframe. Users who ask why backups need to be made every three hours are smote.  At a later time, when said smoten hapless user has accidently deleted his entire project due in 15 minutes, he is glad that all he has to do to retrieve it is enter the "/home/.snapshot/hourly.0/" directory. ''Cool! That's good to know. Why don't they ever tell us that sort of thing? -- ["KenBloom"]''

There's currently a [http://csifdocs.cs.ucdavis.edu/ web page] hosting CSIF news as well as an FAQ. The page is wiki-esque, but editable by ["CSIF Support" CSIF employees]. There doesn't seem to be anything useful there right now, though, except for the [http://csifdocs.cs.ucdavis.edu/tiki-page.php?pageName=CSIF+Loads page where you can see what the load averages are] for most computers that make up the CSIF net (some are secret!).

The CSIF is (somewhat) administered by ["CSIF Support" Jim Moersfelder and his merry gang of paid student lab wonks].  (I'm kidding, Jim does a decent job considering the impossibility of the operation he has to run.  The fact that anyone with a login can easily lock up any system is annoying, though.) ''What do you expect with computer science majors running wild all over the lab? We're the kind of people who I'd expect to know about the latest local root exploit in the kernel. -- ["KenBloom"]''
