= About Zhuam =
Born in Mexico City in 1984 in a Chinese family, he would soon emigrate to Tijuana finishing his kindergarden education at Sindicato Alba Roja, elementary at Miguel F. Martínez, junior high at Instituto Cuauhtlatóhuac and Instituto México, and high school at Centro de Enseñanza Técnica y Superior (CETYS.)

His official name is Rodolfo Ham Zhu. However, because Rodolfo's correct pronunctiation for non-Spanish speakers is difficult he soon introduced himself as Rudolph Tan. Rudolph Tan is the exact translation of his official name.

Currently attending the University of California, Davis as a candidate for a Bachelor of Science in Biochemical Engineering, Zhuam plans to attend graduate school after finishing. Although he's not sure what speciality to apply to, he will pursue something that matches his main interests: genetic, metabolic and biomolecular engineering, or computer science. However, the latter isn't viable as many computer science jobs in the United States are shipped overseas.

= Wiki information=
Although he has been using wikipedia for some time, he didn't know about its exciting origins. This page is also a test to discover how to create a new article.

Since Zhuam has been using wikipedia or wiki communities, his intention is to contribute back to this amazing source of information by providing his best effort to explain science-related topics. Please correct all my mistakes.

=Personal life=
Besides science he also enjoys Martial Arts. Back in San Diego he used to attend Karate and Sgrima classes. His view of sports is as a health promoter activity. As such, he moderately exercises physically.

Because he believes that criticism makes an opinion or fact to be better understood, constructive criticism is one of his favorite activities. Additionally, he also loves to observe everything and think of it quietly.

Zhuam is also conservative. He strongly opposes to alcoholic beverage abuse, smoking, drug as a reality mitigation method (he agrees for medical purposes), pre-marital intercourse, violent behavior, focus on external rather than internal beauty... in other words, a goody two-shoes!

Currently, Zhuam does not dispose of a lot of free time due to his major. However, he does have time to pursue his strongest desires: to work in a genetic, metabolic or biomolecular engineering laboratory and to gain the gain the appreciation and love of the first person he's been in love with.

=Contact Information=
The best way to get ahold of him is by e-mail msnATzhuamDOTcom or zhuamATmsnDOTcom, the former being also a MSN messenger account. For more information, you're welcome to visit his website at zhuamDOTcom

[[Comments]]
------
I checked out your site and saw that you've programming in something called biopython?  Is that a variant of python for use in biology? --["PhilipNeustrom"]
------
''2005-01-16 16:58:32'' [[nbsp]] Yeah, it is a nice programming language. There are no books on the subject but there are online tutorials to it. It is the same as python with some handy modules and functions.  --["RodolfoHam-Zhu"]
------
''2005-01-16 17:06:12'' [[nbsp]] Isn't alcohol abuse, violent behavior and focus on external beauty what being conservative is all about? --["JaimeRaba"]------
''2005-01-16 19:37:14'' [[nbsp]] Let's just say I defined in what sense I'm using the word conservative. --["RodolfoHam-Zhu"]
